In this segment, I'm going to
show you the dependency syntaxes,
a very natural representation for
relation extraction applications.
One domain in which a lot of work
has been done in relation extraction
is in the biomedical text domain.
So here, for example, we have the
sentence, the results demonstrated that
KaiC interacts rhythmically with SasA,
KaiA and KaiB.
And what we'd like to get out of
that is a protein interaction event.
So here's the interacts that is sort
of indicates the relation, and these
are the proteins involved, and there are a
bunch of other proteins involved as well.
Well, the point we get out
of here is that if we can
have this kind of dependency syntax, and
it's very easy starting from here to
follow along the arguments of the subject
and the preposition with, and
to easily see the relation
that we'd like to get out.
And if we are just a little bit clever, we
can then also follow along the conjunction
relations, and see that KaiC is also
interacting with these other two proteins.
And that's something that a lot
of people have worked on.
In particular, one representation that's
being widely used for relation extraction
applications in biomedicine is
the Stanford dependencies representation.
So the basic form of this representation
is as a projective dependency tree.
And it was designed that way, so
it could be easily generated by
post-processing off free structured tree.
So if you have a notion of headedness
in a phrase structure tree,
the Stanford dependency software provides
a set of matching pattern rules that will
then type the dependency relations, and
give you out a Stanford dependency tree.
But Stanford dependencies can also
be a noun pristinely odd generated
directly by dependency pauses, such as
the MaltParser we looked at recently.
Okay, so this is roughly what
the representation looks like.
So it's just as we saw before with the
words connected by type dependency arcs.
But something that has been explored in
the Stanford dependencies framework is
starting from that basic
dependencies representation.
Let's make some changes to it to
facilitate relation extraction
applications.
And the idea here is to emphasize
the relationships between
content words that are useful for
relation extraction applications.
Let me give a couple of examples.
So one example is that commonly,
you'll have a content word like based,
and where the company here is based,
Los Angeles.
And it's separated by this preposition,
in, a function word.
And you can think of these function
words as really functioning
like case markers in
a lot of other languages.
So it seemed more useful if we
directly connected based LA, and
we introduced a relationship of prep_in.
And so that's what we do and
we simplify the structure.
But there's some other places too
in which we can do a better job
at representing the semantics with some
modifications of the graph structure.
And so a particular place of that is
these coordination relationships.
So we very directly got here,
that Bell makes products, but
we'd also like to get out that
Bell distributes products.
Well, one way we can do
that is by recognizing
this and relationship,
and saying okay, well,
that means that Bell
should also be the subject
of distributing and
what they distribute is products.
And similarly, down here,
we can recognized
that they're computer products
as well as electronic products.
So we can make those
changes to the graph and
get a kind of reduced
graph representation.
Now, once you do this, there are some
things that are not as simple.
In particular, if you look at this
structure, it's no longer a dependency
tree because we have multiple
arcs pointing at this node,
and multiple arcs pointing at this node.
But on the other hand,
the relations that we'd like to extract
are represented much more directly.
And let me just show you one graph
that gives an indication of this.
So this was a graph that was originally
put together by Jari Björne et al,
who, with the team that won the BioNLP
2009, shared task on relation extraction
using as the representational
substrates Stanford dependencies.
And what they wanted to illustrate with
this graph is how much more effective
dependency structures were at linking
up the words that you wanted to extract
in a relation, then simply looking for
words in the linear context.
So here,
what we have is that this is the distance
which can be measured either by just
counting words to the left or right, or
by counting the number of dependency
arcs that you have to follow,
and this is the percent
of time that it occurred.
And so what you see is,
if you just look at linear distance,
there are lots of times that
there are arguments of relations
that you want to connect out that are 4,
5, 6, 7, 8 words away.
In fact, there's even a pretty
large residue here, well over 10%,
where the linear distance in a way
in words is greater than ten words.
If on the other hand though,
you try and identify,
relate the arguments of relations
by looking at dependency distance,
then what you discover is that
the vast majority of the arguments
are very close by neighbors in terms
of dependency distance, so about 40%,
7% of them are direct dependencies,
and another 30% a distance 2.
So take those together, and
that's greater than three-quarters of
the dependencies that you want to find.
And then, this number trails away quickly.
So there are virtually no
arguments of relations that aren't fairly
close together in dependency distance.
And it's precisely because of this
reason that you can get a lot of mileage
in doing relation extraction by having
a representation like dependency syntax.
Okay, I hope that's given you some idea
of why knowing about syntax is useful
when you want to do various somatic
tasks in natural language processing.